README.md, before:

# A guide to Lethal Company audio modding (CustomSounds + LCSoundTool)

### Now also available on the Lethal Company modding wiki with nicer formatting: https://lethal.wiki/apis/customsounds

I've seen a lot of people lately asking about custom audio modding and getting stuck on some steps of the process, so this is an extensive guide that anyone can use to replace audio sounds in Lethal Company. I'm assuming you're already familiar with how to install mods -- if not, check other guides and then come back here.

## TL;DR
1. Install LCSoundTool, CustomSounds.
2. Find the name of the sound file you want to replace by using AssetRipper and/or LCSoundTool
3. Rename your custom sound to the name of the one you're replacing and convert it to .wav
4. Put the custom sounds in CustomSounds folder which you can find wherever you installed BepInEx.
5. Share the audio files with your friends, or upload the audio files as a mod on Thunderstore
6. You're done \:)

## Long guide

## Step 1: Installing the mods
You need to install the following mods to be able to add custom sounds:

- [BepinExPack by BepInEx](https://thunderstore.io/c/lethal-company/p/BepInEx/BepInExPack/)

- [LCSoundTool by no00ob](https://thunderstore.io/c/lethal-company/p/no00ob/LCSoundTool/)

- [CustomSounds by Clementinise](https://thunderstore.io/c/lethal-company/p/Clementinise/CustomSounds/)

If you're using r2modman or the Thunderstore manager, your basic setup should look like this:

![Image of r2modman setup](Images/r2modman_setup.png)

## Step 2: Finding the audio files 
If you want to replace an audio file, you need to know which sound you're actually replacing. For the sake of the guide, I'm going to try and find the audio files for the "Icecream Truck" music whenever the delivery ship lands, but you can apply this process to any sound you'd like to replace.

### Step 2.1: Extracting the audio files
To find the sound file you want to replace, I personally recommend extracting all the audio files from the game so you have easy access to them, which makes finding them a lot easier. 

You can do this by using a program called [AssetRipper](https://github.com/AssetRipper/AssetRipper/releases). Make sure to use the latest version (NOT the pre-release one).

First, open up AssetRipper and select the Audio Export Format as "Convert to WAV", as the audio mods we're using can only handle .wav files. 

Afterwards, on the top toolbar go to `File > Open Folder`, and select "Lethal Company_Data", which you can find in the directory where Lethal Company is installed (if you don't know where your game is installed, just go to Steam, right click on Lethal Company, and then go to `Manage > Browse Local Files`).

If everything worked correctly, you should be seeing this window:

![Image of Assetripper](Images/AssetRipper.png)

Now, to extract ALL the audio files from the game, you need to find an AudioClip file in one of the sharedassets folders. 

For example, if you click on the arrow next to `sharedassets0` and then the one next to AudioClip you should be able to see the files `BootUp`, `ButtonPress1` and `HoverButton1`. Now, click on any one of these files so that it's selected, and at the top click on `Export > Export All Files of Selected Type`. 

Afterwards, select where you would like to save the audio files and click Select Folder. At the time of writing this guide, there should be exactly 769 audio files that you can export.

Afterwards, go to the directory you exported the audio files to, and go to `Lethal Company\ExportedProject\Assets\AudioClip`, and there, you should be able to see all the audio files that are currently in the game! Feel free to copy these files somewhere else or to delete the `.meta` files.

You can usually find the files just by looking at the audio names, they have pretty logical names. For example, the ship "ice cream truck music" is literally called `IcecreamTruckV2` and `IcecreamTruckFar`. 

However, if you REALLY can't find the sound file you're looking for, then **Step 2.2** is for you. Otherwise, you can go directly to **Step 3**.

### Step 2.2 (only if you didn't find the file): Using LCSoundTool

If you can't find the sound you're replacing by just looking at the extracted audio files, then you can use method this to find out the exact name of the sound file.

LCSoundTool has a logging function which can be activated / deactivated by pressing F5 when in the game, and it prints the current sound being played to the BepinEx console. For this to actually show up in the console, you need to edit the BepInEx.cfg file, which you can access by going to BepInEx/config/BepInEx.cfg, or if you're using r2modman / Thunderstore, by going into Config Editor and BePinEx.cfg as shown in this image:

![Image of config in r2modman](Images/r2modman_config.png)

In particular, you need to change 4 settings to the following parameters:
```
[Chainloader] HideManagerGameObject = true
[Logging.Console] Enabled = true
[Logging.Console] LogLevels = Fatal, Error, Warning, Message, Info, Debug
[Logging.Disk] WriteUnityLog = false
```
Make sure to change the LogLevels in Logging.Console, I've seen a lot of people skipping this step because they thought everything was included when they missed adding Debug. Once you're done editing the cfg file, press Save at the top of r2modman / Thunderstore or just save normally if you're accessing the file directly.

Now when you boot up the game you should see the following message whenever you press F5 to enable / disable the logging:
```
[Debug  :LCSoundTool] Toggling AudioSource debug logs True!
```
If you want to find out the sounds of enemies, I recommend downloading the mod "**GameMaster**" as it allows you to spawn enemies and give yourself god mode so you don't die while you look at the console, and a bunch of other options that make this process easier.

Anyways, for the "Ice cream truck" music, I ordered an item through the terminal and spawned into a map, and once it arrives you can clearly see which sounds are responsible for playing the music:

![Image of BepInEx Console](Images/BepInEx_console.png)

So now we know that we need to replace the sound files `IcecreamTruckFar` and `IcecreamTruckV2` to make it play custom music! You can repeat this process for (almost) all sounds, so if you want to know what sounds the Jester enemy makes, then you spawn in a Jester enemy and wait until it plays the sound effect you want to replace.

## Step 3: Replacing the audio files
So, now we know that the files we're looking for are `IcecreamTruckFar` and `IcecreamTruckV2`. How do you replace them?

First, you need to rename whatever audio file you're going to use to replace the original one, and (if it isn't already) change the audio format to `.wav`. So if you have a file called `IcecreamMusic.mp3`, then you need to rename it to `IcecreamTruckV2` and convert it to `.wav`.

Once you're done with that, you need to place the audio files in the folder where CustomSounds is installed.

For the **manual installers**:

 Go to `BepInEx\plugins\CustomSounds` and place the files either directly in there or make another folder inside of CustomSounds and put them there.

For **r2modman \ Thunderstore** users:

Go to settings>Browse profile folder, and then go into `BepInEx\plugins\Clementinise-CustomSounds\CustomSounds` and either place the audio files directly there or make another folder inside of CustomSounds and put them there.

**Note:** r2modman WILL delete your custom sound files each time you update CustomSounds, so I would recommend to keep your replacement sounds in another folder so you can quickly swap them back in the case an update comes out.

### Random sound feature and descriptions

CustomSounds has added a few features with Update 2.1.0. This is a rewrite of the CHANGELOG taken from Thunderstore (https://thunderstore.io/c/lethal-company/p/Clementinise/CustomSounds/):

You can now use multiple files to replace one sound effect, and then set a random % chance for each of these replacement sounds to play. So, for example, you can replace the JackOLanternHit sound with two sound files, change their names into JackOLanternHit-25.wav and JackOLanternHit-75.wav, and they will respectively have a 25% and a 75% chance of playing that particular sound.

Additionally, you can now add short descriptions to sounds that show up in the terminal when you type in "customsounds list". For instance, if you want to add a description to the JackOLanternHit.wav sound file, you would just name it JackOLanternHit-Funny-Laugh.wav, and it will display as "JackOLanternHit [Funny Laugh]" in the terminal.

## Step 4: Testing the replacement:
If you did everything correctly, you should see the files loading in the BepInEx console. Alternatively, you can just go into your ship and type "customsounds help" in your terminal to see all the available commands. If your replacement sounds have loaded correctly, then you should be able to see them if you type in "customsounds list" like this:

![Image of terminal using the CustomSounds command](Images/CustomSounds_console.png)

Here's a little fun demo of how this particular setup looks like:
[![Watch the video](Images/Youtube_thumbnail.png)](https://youtu.be/mk8O8qFcMlk)

## Step 5: Sharing custom sounds with friends

There are three methods to share your custom audio files:
- File sharing
- Uploading it to Thunderstore

### Step 5.1: File sharing

The first one is by far the most obvious and simple method, you just put the audio files into a `.zip` file, upload it somewhere, tell your friends to download it and put it into the CustomSounds folder, and that's it.

### Step 5.2: Uploading to Thunderstore

The method is more complicated to set up, but has the benefit of putting it up on Thunderstore, so your friends (and everyone else) can just download it as a package without needing to interact with any files at all.

First of all, you need to set up the following folder structure for your sound files:
```
- manifest.json
- README.md
- CHANGELOG.md (Optional)
- icon.png
- BepInEx
    - plugins
        - CustomSounds
            - <YourSoundPackName>
                - [Insert All Audio Files Here]
```
For the manifest.json, insert all of the information you want to include about the mod, here's an example:
```json
{
    "name": "ModName",
    "version_number": "1.0.0",
    "website_url": "(optional link, you can leave this empty)",
    "description": "description of mod",
    "dependencies": [
        "BepInEx-BepInExPack-5.4.2100",
        "no00ob-LCSoundTool-1.2.2",
        "Clementinise-CustomSounds-1.2.3"
    ]
}
```

For the README.md, you can include any sort of text you want to show on your mod page in addition to the description. Note that this file is required, but you can leave it empty if you want to. If you want to do some more complex formatting, this should be a good resource to get started: (<https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/quickstart-for-writing-on-github>)

For the CHANGELOG.md, it's the same story as README.md, however, this file is optional, so you don't have to include it if you don't want to

The icon.png is a 256x256 image which will be the icon displayed on your mod page.

If you set everything up correctly, you can now put the entire folder structure into a .zip file, which should look something like this if you open it:
![Picture of 7zip folder structure](Images/mod_zip.png)

Now you can actually upload the mod to [Thunderstore](https://thunderstore.io/c/lethal-company/). First, log in, and then go to Upload at the top of the page. Afterwards, you just upload the .zip file, select your team (you might need to create one first), select the categories and press Submit.

Congratulations, your mod is now available to the public! After a while, you should be able to download the mod through Thunderstore / r2modman, meaning that your friends can quickly install the audio mod without them needing to do any work.

## FAQ
### I converted the files to .wav through the windows file explorer, and it doesn't work. Why?

You can't just rename a .mp3 file to a .wav file and expect it to work. Sound files with different extensions store data differently. Windows does NOT convert the actual data inside of the sound files, it just changes the NAME of the extension, meaning that it's basically just a .mp3 file that appears as a .wav file, but isn't. Use a proper audio file converter instead -- there's a lot of options online. You can use Audacity, ffmpeg, or just any online file converter.

### I can't upload my mod to Thunderstore, why?
Check for the obvious things, did you name the files correctly? Is it called manifest.json instead of manifest.json.json? Is your folder path for the CustomSounds correct? Is your manifest.json correct?

### My sound mod isn't working even though the sounds appear on the list!
Make sure that you have replaced the correct audio file. A lot of people have reported to me that their sound mod "doesn't work", while in reality it works perfectly fine, but it's just not the sound that they expected to replace. A common example is the light switch in the ship, where the actual sound files are called ```FlashlightClickMini``` and ```FlashlightClickMini2```, and NOT ```LightOff``` and ```LightOn```, which are actually responsible for the breaker panel in the dungeon.

### My sounds don't work after I reload them in the terminal!
This is a known bug, I've reported this to the developer already. Just don't use the reload command for now.

### None of these questions solve my problem! How can I contact you?
If you have any other questions then feel free to ping me over on the [Lethal Company Discord](https://discord.gg/lethal-company), or just DM me on Discord (nickname: `futuresavior`). I want to clarify that I am not the developer of CustomSounds, that's Clementinise, who you can also contact on the same discord. Please do NOT send me friend requests, just DM me directly, and don't forget to have fun \:)

## Credits
Thank you to Clementinise for creating CustomSounds and proof-reading my guide, and to no00ob for creating LCSoundTool, both of your mods are amazing and appreciated \<3

Commit message:

Update the guide to include info about new audio formats and HideManagerGameObject

README.md, after:

# A guide to Lethal Company audio modding (CustomSounds + LCSoundTool)

### Now also available on the Lethal Company modding wiki with nicer formatting: https://lethal.wiki/apis/customsounds

I've seen a lot of people lately asking about custom audio modding and getting stuck on some steps of the process, so this is an extensive guide that anyone can use to replace audio sounds in Lethal Company. I'm assuming you're already familiar with how to install mods -- if not, check other guides and then come back here.

## TL;DR
1. Install LCSoundTool, CustomSounds.
2. Find the name of the sound file you want to replace by using AssetRipper and/or LCSoundTool
3. Rename your custom sound to the name of the one you're replacing and convert it to .wav
4. Put the custom sounds in CustomSounds folder which you can find wherever you installed BepInEx.
5. Share the audio files with your friends, or upload the audio files as a mod on Thunderstore
6. You're done \:)

## Long guide

## Step 1: Installing the mods
You need to install the following mods to be able to add custom sounds:

- [BepinExPack by BepInEx](https://thunderstore.io/c/lethal-company/p/BepInEx/BepInExPack/)

- [LCSoundTool by no00ob](https://thunderstore.io/c/lethal-company/p/no00ob/LCSoundTool/)

- [CustomSounds by Clementinise](https://thunderstore.io/c/lethal-company/p/Clementinise/CustomSounds/)

If you're using r2modman or the Thunderstore manager, your basic setup should look like this:

![Image of r2modman setup](Images/r2modman_setup.png)

## Step 2: Finding the audio files 
If you want to replace an audio file, you need to know which sound you're actually replacing. For the sake of the guide, I'm going to try and find the audio files for the "Icecream Truck" music whenever the delivery ship lands, but you can apply this process to any sound you'd like to replace.

### Step 2.1: Extracting the audio files
To find the sound file you want to replace, I personally recommend extracting all the audio files from the game so you have easy access to them, which makes finding them a lot easier. 

You can do this by using a program called [AssetRipper](https://github.com/AssetRipper/AssetRipper/releases). Make sure to use the latest version (NOT the pre-release one).

First, open up AssetRipper, before update 2.3, you needed to set the audio export format to .wav, but you don't need to do that anymore, as CustomSounds now supports .ogg, .mp3 and .wav files. 

Afterwards, on the top toolbar go to `File > Open Folder`, and select "Lethal Company_Data", which you can find in the directory where Lethal Company is installed (if you don't know where your game is installed, just go to Steam, right click on Lethal Company, and then go to `Manage > Browse Local Files`).

If everything worked correctly, you should be seeing this window:

![Image of Assetripper](Images/AssetRipper.png)

Now, to extract ALL the audio files from the game, you need to find an AudioClip file in one of the sharedassets folders. 

For example, if you click on the arrow next to `sharedassets0` and then the one next to AudioClip you should be able to see the files `BootUp`, `ButtonPress1` and `HoverButton1`. Now, click on any one of these files so that it's selected, and at the top click on `Export > Export All Files of Selected Type`. 

Afterwards, select where you would like to save the audio files and click Select Folder. At the time of writing this guide, there should be exactly 769 audio files that you can export.

Afterwards, go to the directory you exported the audio files to, and go to `Lethal Company\ExportedProject\Assets\AudioClip`, and there, you should be able to see all the audio files that are currently in the game! Feel free to copy these files somewhere else or to delete the `.meta` files.

You can usually find the files just by looking at the audio names, they have pretty logical names. For example, the ship "ice cream truck music" is literally called `IcecreamTruckV2` and `IcecreamTruckFar`. 

However, if you REALLY can't find the sound file you're looking for, then **Step 2.2** is for you. Otherwise, you can go directly to **Step 3**.

### Step 2.2 (only if you didn't find the file): Using LCSoundTool

If you can't find the sound you're replacing by just looking at the extracted audio files, then you can use method this to find out the exact name of the sound file.

LCSoundTool has a logging function which can be activated / deactivated by pressing F5 when in the game, and it prints the current sound being played to the BepinEx console. For this to actually show up in the console, you need to edit the BepInEx.cfg file, which you can access by going to BepInEx/config/BepInEx.cfg, or if you're using r2modman / Thunderstore, by going into Config Editor and BePinEx.cfg as shown in this image:

![Image of config in r2modman](Images/r2modman_config.png)

In particular, you need to change 4 settings to the following parameters:
```
[Chainloader] HideManagerGameObject = true
[Logging.Console] Enabled = true
[Logging.Console] LogLevels = Fatal, Error, Warning, Message, Info, Debug
[Logging.Disk] WriteUnityLog = false
```
Make sure to change the LogLevels in Logging.Console, I've seen a lot of people skipping this step because they thought everything was included when they missed adding Debug. Once you're done editing the cfg file, press Save at the top of r2modman / Thunderstore or just save normally if you're accessing the file directly.

Now when you boot up the game you should see the following message whenever you press F5 to enable / disable the logging:
```
[Debug  :LCSoundTool] Toggling AudioSource debug logs True!
```
If you want to find out the sounds of enemies, I recommend downloading the mod "**GameMaster**" as it allows you to spawn enemies and give yourself god mode so you don't die while you look at the console, and a bunch of other options that make this process easier.

Anyways, for the "Ice cream truck" music, I ordered an item through the terminal and spawned into a map, and once it arrives you can clearly see which sounds are responsible for playing the music:

![Image of BepInEx Console](Images/BepInEx_console.png)

So now we know that we need to replace the sound files `IcecreamTruckFar` and `IcecreamTruckV2` to make it play custom music! You can repeat this process for (almost) all sounds, so if you want to know what sounds the Jester enemy makes, then you spawn in a Jester enemy and wait until it plays the sound effect you want to replace.

## Step 3: Replacing the audio files
So, now we know that the files we're looking for are `IcecreamTruckFar` and `IcecreamTruckV2`. How do you replace them?

First, make sure to change the config in BepInEx.cfg. In particular, set the following parameter to true:
```
[Chainloader] HideManagerGameObject = true
```

CustomSounds will NOT work if you don't set this paremeter.

Second, you need to rename whatever audio file you're going to use to replace the original one, and (if it isn't already) convert the audio format. So if you have a file called `IcecreamMusic.mp3`, then you need to rename it to `IcecreamTruckV2` and convert it to `.wav`,`.mp3` or `.ogg`.

Once you're done with that, you need to place the audio files in the folder where CustomSounds is installed.

For the **manual installers**:

 Go to `BepInEx\plugins\CustomSounds` and place the files either directly in there or make another folder inside of CustomSounds and put them there.

For **r2modman \ Thunderstore** users:

Go to settings>Browse profile folder, and then go into `BepInEx\plugins\Clementinise-CustomSounds\CustomSounds` and either place the audio files directly there or make another folder inside of CustomSounds and put them there.

**Note:** r2modman WILL delete your custom sound files each time you update CustomSounds, so I would recommend to keep your replacement sounds in another folder so you can quickly swap them back in the case an update comes out.

### Random sound feature and descriptions

CustomSounds has added a few features with Update 2.1.0. This is a rewrite of the CHANGELOG taken from Thunderstore (https://thunderstore.io/c/lethal-company/p/Clementinise/CustomSounds/):

You can now use multiple files to replace one sound effect, and then set a random % chance for each of these replacement sounds to play. So, for example, you can replace the JackOLanternHit sound with two sound files, change their names into JackOLanternHit-25.wav and JackOLanternHit-75.wav, and they will respectively have a 25% and a 75% chance of playing that particular sound.

Additionally, you can now add short descriptions to sounds that show up in the terminal when you type in "customsounds list". For instance, if you want to add a description to the JackOLanternHit.wav sound file, you would just name it JackOLanternHit-Funny-Laugh.wav, and it will display as "JackOLanternHit [Funny Laugh]" in the terminal.

## Step 4: Testing the replacement:
If you did everything correctly, you should see the files loading in the BepInEx console. Alternatively, you can just go into your ship and type "customsounds help" in your terminal to see all the available commands. If your replacement sounds have loaded correctly, then you should be able to see them if you type in "customsounds list" like this:

![Image of terminal using the CustomSounds command](Images/CustomSounds_console.png)

Here's a little fun demo of how this particular setup looks like:
[![Watch the video](Images/Youtube_thumbnail.png)](https://youtu.be/mk8O8qFcMlk)

## Step 5: Sharing custom sounds with friends

There are three methods to share your custom audio files:
- File sharing
- Uploading it to Thunderstore

### Step 5.1: File sharing

The first one is by far the most obvious and simple method, you just put the audio files into a `.zip` file, upload it somewhere, tell your friends to download it and put it into the CustomSounds folder, and that's it.

### Step 5.2: Uploading to Thunderstore

The method is more complicated to set up, but has the benefit of putting it up on Thunderstore, so your friends (and everyone else) can just download it as a package without needing to interact with any files at all.

First of all, you need to set up the following folder structure for your sound files:
```
- manifest.json
- README.md
- CHANGELOG.md (Optional)
- icon.png
- BepInEx
    - plugins
        - CustomSounds
            - <YourSoundPackName>
                - [Insert All Audio Files Here]
```
For the manifest.json, insert all of the information you want to include about the mod, here's an example:
```json
{
    "name": "ModName",
    "version_number": "1.0.0",
    "website_url": "(optional link, you can leave this empty)",
    "description": "description of mod",
    "dependencies": [
        "BepInEx-BepInExPack-5.4.2100",
        "no00ob-LCSoundTool-1.2.2",
        "Clementinise-CustomSounds-1.2.3"
    ]
}
```

For the README.md, you can include any sort of text you want to show on your mod page in addition to the description. Note that this file is required, but you can leave it empty if you want to. If you want to do some more complex formatting, this should be a good resource to get started: (<https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/quickstart-for-writing-on-github>)

For the CHANGELOG.md, it's the same story as README.md, however, this file is optional, so you don't have to include it if you don't want to

The icon.png is a 256x256 image which will be the icon displayed on your mod page.

If you set everything up correctly, you can now put the entire folder structure into a .zip file, which should look something like this if you open it:
![Picture of 7zip folder structure](Images/mod_zip.png)

Now you can actually upload the mod to [Thunderstore](https://thunderstore.io/c/lethal-company/). First, log in, and then go to Upload at the top of the page. Afterwards, you just upload the .zip file, select your team (you might need to create one first), select the categories and press Submit.

Congratulations, your mod is now available to the public! After a while, you should be able to download the mod through Thunderstore / r2modman, meaning that your friends can quickly install the audio mod without them needing to do any work.

## FAQ
### I converted the files to .wav, .mp3 or .ogg through the windows file explorer, and it doesn't work. Why?

You can't just rename a .mp3 file to a .wav file and expect it to work. Sound files with different extensions store data differently. Windows does NOT convert the actual data inside of the sound files, it just changes the NAME of the extension, meaning that it's basically just a .mp3 file that appears as a .wav file, but isn't. Use a proper audio file converter instead -- there's a lot of options online. You can use Audacity, ffmpeg, or just any online file converter.

### I can't upload my mod to Thunderstore, why?
Check for the obvious things, did you name the files correctly? Is it called manifest.json instead of manifest.json.json? Is your folder path for the CustomSounds correct? Is your manifest.json correct?

### My sound mod isn't working even though the sounds appear on the list!
Make sure that you have replaced the correct audio file. A lot of people have reported to me that their sound mod "doesn't work", while in reality it works perfectly fine, but it's just not the sound that they expected to replace. A common example is the light switch in the ship, where the actual sound files are called ```FlashlightClickMini``` and ```FlashlightClickMini2```, and NOT ```LightOff``` and ```LightOn```, which are actually responsible for the breaker panel in the dungeon.

### My sounds don't work after I reload them in the terminal!
This is a known bug, I've reported this to the developer already. Just don't use the reload command for now.

### None of these questions solve my problem! How can I contact you?
If you have any other questions then feel free to ping me over on the [Lethal Company Discord](https://discord.gg/lethal-company), or just DM me on Discord (nickname: `futuresavior`). I want to clarify that I am not the developer of CustomSounds, that's Clementinise, who you can also contact on the same discord. Please do NOT send me friend requests, just DM me directly, and don't forget to have fun \:)

## Credits
Thank you to Clementinise for creating CustomSounds and proof-reading my guide, and to no00ob for creating LCSoundTool, both of your mods are amazing and appreciated \<3
